Before the arrival of Jio , the cost of data packs were very high for an individual. We've seen days where 1GB per month used to cost around Rs.251 for Airtel and other service providers. But due to the arrival of Jio, there has been a severe competition in cellular service companies like Airtel, Idea etc. Jio shifted the market equation from consuming 1GB/month to 1.5Gb/day. This attracted many internet users towards Jio due to which other service providers were facing compete or perish situation. As a result they had to lower their rates so that they could compete with Jio. Due to the sudden availability of GBs of data for daily use at an affordable price, the users simply spent more time on social networking sites for leisure. This had a huge impact on Television broadcasts too as the viewers were shifiting towards web based entertainment. This gave rise to the production of webseries which as of now can compete with any film industry. Platforms like youtube,TikTok, Netflix etc saw a huge growth in their business as more and more people started depending on these platforms for viewing different contents during their leisure time. This boom was especially observed in the Tier 2 and Tier 3 zones as people living in these areas can now gain access to the current entertainment trends happening across the country at an affordable price.
But this does not changed the purchasing power of general public. Just because the internet is now cheaper does not mean that it increased the purchasing power of any community. Though it gave easier access to the latest products being sold online on Flipkart, Amazon etc, but people can't simply buy it as it did not affect their economic stance or stability. Poor were still poor but with an affordable internet access. But they can watch latest entertainment on their phone with cheaper internet access.
Due to all these factors, shopping websites haven't seen similar growth as compared to social media platforms like youtube,tiktok etc.